.github/README.md, before:

# homepage

[![GitHub Actions](https://img.shields.io/endpoint.svg?url=https%3A%2F%2Factions-badge.atrox.dev%2Farwynfr%2Fhomepage%2Fbadge)](https://actions-badge.atrox.dev/arwynfr/homepage/goto)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/57151d564ff64ab4852a45be92a2c6f9)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/ArwynFr/homepage?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=ArwynFr/homepage&utm_campaign=Badge_Grade_Settings)

## What is this repository about

This projects is the source for <https://www.arwyn.fr>

## Rules and standards

This project is licensed under [MIT License](/LICENSE)

## How it works

This project is a way for me to try out advanced development concepts.

The initial idea was to test devops principles using docker swarm as the infrastructure backend, behind a traefik instance. The principles were achieved by using github actions to build docker image, and deploy the stack on a swarm. It worked well but needed a lot secrets handling, especially SSH key exchange and docker context configuration.

I had to develop a Github Action to help me on that journey : [actions-docker-context](https://github.com/ArwynFr/actions-docker-context)

Then, I was asked by a customer about how to secure their CICD process, as they were concerned about granting privileges on their production environment to the software factory. I was considering a study of push vs pull CICD process on the internet but I found few if any example of pull CICD of docker swarm stacks. This led me into trying a pull approach on my own CICD to better grasp the pros and cons because there is few examples of pull deployments of docker stacks.

The first part was to write a pull script to run on the production environment, which proved quite trivial to write. Then I removed the push part of the CICD. A lot of secrets ended up as read-only files or environment variables on the production environment, which made the deployment a LOT safer. An unexpected benefit, since the application has low dev activity, was a LOT more production deployment. This led to easier CICD fixing when something wrong happened. The price to these benefits was deployment delay. Pulls are run on a daily basis, which means up-to 24 hours between PR merge and production deployment.

The delay problem was overtaken by diverting github self-hosted actions runner as deploy agent instead of a build agent. I installed an agent on my server and split my CICD workflow into two jobs. The build job runs on github infrastructure, builds and pushes the docker image to github docker repository. Then a deploy job is scheduled on the hosted runner which clones the repository, pulls the image and deploys the stack. The overall operation takes about 2 minutes to complete when the agent requires an update. Adding the stack deploy delay, it takes less than 5 minutes to deploy to production after PR merging.

At first I also intended to separate stack vs image code, in order to prevent the runner from cloning the whole repository. However this proved cumbersome. The submodule was finally merged back and I'll be looking into sparse chekouts instead.

The build process is now :

- Github Actions are triggerd on push / master
- The workflow builds the [Dockerfile](/src/Dockerfile) into an image and push it to Github Packages
- The workflow schedules a deploy job on the self-hosted runner
- The runner clone the repository
- The docker engine pulls the website image from Github Packages
- The stack is deployed on the local swarm behind a traefik reverse

## How to contribute

This project is not expecting any external contributions.

Commit message:

fix: docker swarm to rke2

.github/README.md, after:

# Homepage

[![GitHub Actions](https://img.shields.io/endpoint.svg?url=https%3A%2F%2Factions-badge.atrox.dev%2Farwynfr%2Fhomepage%2Fbadge)](https://actions-badge.atrox.dev/arwynfr/homepage/goto)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/57151d564ff64ab4852a45be92a2c6f9)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/ArwynFr/homepage?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=ArwynFr/homepage&utm_campaign=Badge_Grade_Settings)

## What is this repository about

This projects is the source for <https://www.arwyn.fr>

It is a way for me to try out advanced CI/CD concepts.
It has gone through multiple refactorings with very different solutions.
The build process is now the following :

- Changes are pushed on main (either by me or by renovate)
- Github Actions are triggerd whenever the sources are modified
- A Github hosted agent builds the [Dockerfile](/src/Dockerfile) into an image and pushes to Github Packages
- A self-hosted  agent clones the kubernetes resources and applies them to the local cluster

Also, if needed:

- Cert-manager fetches a TLS cert from Let's Encrypt
- External-DNS creates a DNS entry

This approach is better than push because GitHub has no access to production credentials. It is also better than pull because you don't waste resources polling the repository for changes / diff.

## How to contribute

This project is not expecting any external contributions.
